with temperatures of 70 below and in
terrible storms the Penguins huddled
tightly together for warmth no other
adult penguins are so tolerant of one
another but for Emperor's this is the
key to survival
the cooperation is not random those most
exposed on the windward side moved down
around the huddle to the more sheltered
side this ensures that every bird gets
its fair share of warmth in the middle
and in time takes its turn in enduring
the brunt of the Antarctic weather
as mid winter approaches the Sun
disappears below the horizon for the
last time this season a month of total
darkness lies ahead
above the huddle the southern lights the
Aurora Australis blazed across the
winter sky these spectacular displays
occur as subatomic particles traveling
through space enter the Earth's magnetic
field
[Music]
as winter recedes the Huddle's begin to
break up a heat that was trapped within
them for so long
escapes these males who have not eaten
for a hundred and fifteen days are close
to death by starvation
[Applause]
you